Programme
Specifications

MPH Programme: Batch 2022

Programme:                                   Department:
097: Master of Public Health (MPH)           Allied Health Sciences

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences
M.S. Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences

 University House, New BEL Road, MSR Nagar, Bangalore ­ 560 054

Zwww.msruas.ac.in
 MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

          UNIVERSITY'S VISION, MISSION AND OBJECTIVES

The M. S. Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences (MSRUAS) will focus on student-centric professional
education and motivates its staff and students to contribute significantly to the growth of technology, science,
economy and society through their imaginative, creative and innovative pursuits. Hence, the University has
articulated the following vision and objectives.

Vision
MSRUAS aspires to be the premier university of choice in Asia for student-centric professional education and
services with a strong focus on applied research whilst maintaining the highest academic and ethical standards
in a creative and innovative environment.

Mission
Our purpose is the creation and dissemination of knowledge. We are committed to creativity, innovation and
excellence in our teaching and research. We value integrity, quality and teamwork in all our endeavors. We
inspire critical thinking, personal development and a passion for lifelong learning. We serve the technical,
scientific and economic needs of our society.

Objectives
 1. To disseminate knowledge and skills through instructions, teaching, training, seminars, workshops and

      symposia in Engineering and Technology, Art and Design, Management and Commerce, Health and
      Allied Sciences, Physical and Life Sciences, Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences to equip students and
      scholars to meet the needs of industries, business and society
 2. To generate knowledge through research in Engineering and Technology, Art and Design, Management
      and Commerce, Health and Allied Sciences, Physical and Life Sciences, Arts, Humanities and Social
      Sciences to meet the challenges that arise in industry, business and society
 3. To promote health, human well-being and provide holistic healthcare
 4. To provide technical and scientific solutions to real life problems posed by industry, business and society
      in Engineering and Technology, Art and Design, Management and Commerce, Health and Allied
      Sciences, Physical and Life Sciences, Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences
 5. To instill the spirit of entrepreneurship in our youth to help create more career opportunities in the society
      by incubating and nurturing technology product ideas and supporting technology-backed business
 6. To identify and nurture leadership skills in students and help in the development of our future leaders to
      enrich the society we live in
 7. To develop partnership with universities, industries, businesses, research establishments, NGOs,
      international organizations, governmental organizations in India and abroad to enrich the experiences of
      faculties and students through research and developmental programmes

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences  RUAS                                                                    2
MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS: MASTER OF PUBLIC HEALTH (MPH)

                     Faculty                Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences (FLAHS)

                     Department Allied Health Sciences

                     Programme Master of Public Health (MPH)

                     Head of the Dr. Tushar Shaw
                     Department

1. Title of the Award
         MPH

2. Mode of Study
         Full-Time

3. Awarding Institution/Body
         M.S. Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences, Bangalore (India)

4. Joint Award
         --

5. Teaching Institution
         Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences
         M.S. Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences, Bangalore (India)

6. Date of Programme Specifications
         July 2022

7. Date of Programme Approval by the Academic Council of MSRUAS
         July 2022

8. Next Review Date
         June 2024

9. Programme Approving Regulatory Body and Date of Approval
         --

10. Programme Accrediting Body and Date of Accreditation
         --

11. Grade Awarded by the Accreditation Body
         --

12. Programme Accreditation Validity
         --

13. Programme Benchmark

14. Background and Details of the Programme

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences                                                      RUAS  3
MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

14.1 Background and Need

Despite significant achievements over the years, public health challenges continue to daunt the
governments and health authorities, both in India and elsewhere. Over the years, life span of
people has risen; leading killers such as malaria, polio and measles have been controlled; we have
seen reduction in the deaths of women and children all over the world. However, non-
communicable disease such as cardio-vascular diseases, diabetes, cancers and mental health
issues continue to affect in large scale, and India is no exception. In addition, epidemic outbreaks
such as SARS, Ebola and more recently novel coronavirus (COVID-19) that quickly progress into
global pandemics have huge implications for socio-economic development and progress of the
nations. If these challenges are not effectively tackled with the right scientific tempo and public
health approaches, these challenges have the potential to halt or even reverse the progress of the
nations by several decades.
Public health is an essential component of a health system as it is responsible for reducing
morbidities and mortalities by maintaining and improving health of population. India is ranked
in the bottom quantile for overall Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which necessitates a
well-trained and motivated health workforce. There is a recognized need to initiate and
appropriately strengthen the public health education in the country in consort with considerable
investment in public health. To address this, quality training is needed to create professionally
trained public health workforce who can significantly contribute towards strengthening the Indian
health system.
In 2012, the high level expert group for universal health coverage for India recommended
strengthening of the health system by supporting postgraduate programmes in public health.
Along with this, it has been iterated that the present health syllabi in the country are not abreast
with the changing dynamics of public health, health policies, demographics and epidemiological
transitions. Despite the undeniable need to strengthen India's health workforce, it can be argued
that MPH programmes are currently undersubscribed. Furthermore, it is increasingly felt that the
training of public health students at the post-graduate level are lacking explicitly as per the stated
standardized competency framework that is tailor made for the Indian context. Therefore,
increased clarity on the training and role of public health graduates in the Indian context would
help institutions adjust their programmes and ensure graduates with required skill-sets,
competencies, attitude and motivation.

MPH programmes being offered in India have witnessed a rapid expansion in the past two
decades. Unfortunately, the supply and demand for public health graduates are not matched.
Currently, there are 44 educational institutions offering MPH programme, out of which 26 are
privately owned and 18 are in the public sector. Even though there is a recognized need to
strengthen the public health workforce in India, there is no clearly defined career pathways for
MPH graduates in the national public health system. This clearly implies that the institutions and
public health bodies must collaborate to design and deliver MPH programmes to address the
identified competencies. These competencies are the ones defined in consultation with the experts
at national and international levels considering globalization and other factors.
Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences expresses its solidarity through building a competent
and compassionate public health workforce through its Masters and Doctoral training
programmes in Public Health. The MPH programme being offered under Ramaiah University of
Applied Sciences has been developed in consultation with eminent global health and public
health experts while drawing learning and experience from other successful courses both within
the country and outside. The graduates will be offered exposure to many disciplines that contribute

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences  RUAS                                                        4
MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

              to the public health like health care, behavioral and social sciences, epidemiology, statistics,
              management, communication, environment, nutrition, ethics and public policy. This course will
              be particularly relevant for those who seek to respond to the public health challenges through
              developing and scaling up innovations in health care delivery, research and knowledge
              generation, and health administration, etc. The course will train the students to become dedicated,
              competent and ethical public health researchers, practitioners, and policymakers who meet
              society's need to prevent and ameliorate local, national, and global public health problems.

              14.2 Job Opportunities

              There are plenty of job opportunities that range from the public to private sector: government,
              private health care, non-governmental organizations, academia, research enterprises, and donor
              agencies. The course will address the needs of various roles of a public health cadre: designing,
              planning and implementing national health programmes; primary health care provision; health
              administration; monitoring, research and evaluation; advisory and policy level functioning, etc.
              The course will also prepare students to pursue focused specialized opportunities such as health
              communication, health economics, behavioral sciences, public health ethics, policy, etc.
              Depending upon the competency level, qualification, work experience and attitudes, plenty of
              opportunities are possible at the local, state, national, regional and global levels. Here are some
              common roles that a public health professional can potentially take up:

                        · Epidemiologist

                        · Health educators and community health workers

                        · Occupational health and safety specialist

                        · Social and community service managers
                        · Public health management analyst

                        · Health communication specialist

                        · Public relations officer

                        · Research scientist

                        · Health resource professional

                        · Professor/lecturer

                        · Senior technical specialist ­ public health

                        · Environmental health specialist

                        · Social worker cum counsellor

                        · Monitoring and evaluation specialist

                        · Public health advisor

14.3 Unique features of MPH in RUAS

· Students are from diverse backgrounds that bring richness of perspectives and ideas
    which facilitate learning. We adopt innovative peer-driven and peer-centered learning

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences  RUAS                                                                   5
 MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

                             methods as part of our pedagogy.

                        · The students are trained by experienced faculty from various disciplines such as
                             community medicine, public health dentistry, public health nursing, clinical
                             specialty, social work, engineering and technology, integrative medicine,
                             management, etc.

                        · RUAS faculty has excellent engagement with eminent global health platforms of
                             University of Illinois, U.S.A and University of Manitoba, Canada, thus bringing their
                             global health expertise to the teaching.

                        · Excellent networking opportunities through industrial visits, conferences,
                             symposium, workshops and internships

                        · Strong collaborations with health organizations, policy centers, medical settings,
                             public health centers and hospitals

                        · Competency-based and research-driven curriculum

                        · Rich immersion to the field programmes and challenges in public health so that
                             students appreciate the issues, connect with the community and identify innovative
                             solutions as part of student internship.

                        · Fosters strong sense of social justice, ethics and leadership during the programme

                14.4 Admission process

                         · Target audience: Graduates from multidisciplinary medical backgrounds such as
                              medicine, dentistry, physiotherapy, occupational therapy, AYUSH (ayurveda, yoga
                              and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy), nursing, veterinary sciences or
                              pharmacy; and non-medical backgrounds such as engineering,
                              statistics/biostatistics, demography, population studies, nutrition, sociology,
                              economics, psychology, anthropology, social work, management, life sciences,
                              social sciences, management, law and arts.

                         · Eligibility: Candidates should have at least 50% marks in aggregate and should secure
                              at least 5.0 CGPA on a 10-point scale.

                         · Selection process:

                                          · Statement of purpose
                                          · Writing sample
                                          · Group Discussions
                                          · Personal Interview

15. Programme Aim:

                The aim of this programme is to provide students with a multi-disciplinary experience across a
                whole range of public health competencies, areas and programs.

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences  RUAS                                                                    6
 MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

16. Programme Outcomes (PO's)

                 PO-1. Public health knowledge: Apply the knowledge of art, science, public health
                 fundamentals, and a public health specialization to the solution of complex community
                 problems.

                 PO-2. Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyse
                 complex public health problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of
                 public health, natural sciences, and medical sciences.

                 PO-3. Design/development of solutions: Design solutions for complex public health
                 problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with
                 appropriate consideration for public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and
                 environmental considerations.

                 PO-4. Conduct investigations of complex problems: Use research-based knowledge and
                 research methods including design of interventions, analysis and interpretation of data, and
                 synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.

                 PO-5. Modern tool usage: Create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and
                 modern medical engineering and tools including prediction and modelling to complex public
                 health activities with an understanding of the limitations.

                 PO-6. Public health and society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge
                 to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities
                 relevant to the professional public health practice.

                 PO-7. Environment and sustainability: Understand the impact of professional public
                 health solutions in societal, occupational and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the
                 knowledge of and need for sustainable development.

                 PO-8. Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and
                 responsibilities and norms of the public health practice.

                 PO-9. Individual and teamwork: Function effectively as an individual and as a member or
                 leader in diverse teams and in multidisciplinary settings.

                 PO-10. Communication: Communicate effectively on complex public health activities with
                 the engineering community and with society at large, such as being able to comprehend and
                 write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and
                 receive clear instructions.

                 PO-11. Project management and finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of
                 public health and management principles and apply these to one's own work, as a member and
                 leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.

                 PO-12. Life-long learning: Recognize the need for and have the preparation and ability to
                 engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of scientific change.

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences  RUAS                                                                    7
 MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

17. Programme Education Objectives

                 PEO-1. Provide students with a strong foundation in public health principles, concepts and
                 research, to enable them to devise and deliver effective solutions to challenging public health
                 problems
                 PEO-2. Impart technical skills required to develop innovative solutions as per behavioral,
                 technological and structural requirements in public healthcare
                 PEO-3. Impart the required managerial and entrepreneurial skills to enable students to
                 contribute to the public healthcare industry as specialist
                 PEO-4. Instill human values, social, interpersonal and leadership skills required for
                 professional success in evolving as global professionals

18. Programme Specific Outcomes (PSOs) for MPH Program

At the end of the MPH Programme, the post-graduate will be able to:
                 PSO-1. Apply the knowledge of epidemiology, biostatistics and behavioral science in
                 public health to develop innovative and safe solutions to challenges
                 PSO-2. Adapt to technological advancement in diagnostics, planning and implementation
                 by upgrading to the latest design processes in public health
                 PSO-3. Demonstrate the leadership qualities and strive for the betterment of organization,
                 environment and society
                 PSO-4. Demonstrate an understanding of the importance of life-long learning through
                 professional development, practical training and specialized certifications

19. Programme Structure:

         MPH Programme
         This is designed for the students who aspire to become public health professionals with a goal of
         administering health programmes, undertaking research and analyzing and interpreting data for
         public health action and policy. The programme is designed for a total of 72 credits of which 36
         credits include core courses, 8 credits of research courses, 18 credits will be fulfilled by project
         work, internship and dissertation and 10 credits of electives.
         The following are the courses a student is required to successfully complete for the award of MPH
         degree. The programme is delivered as per the time-table.

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences  RUAS                                                                  8
MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

                                SEMESTER-I

S.   Code  Course Title                     Theory Tutorial Practical  Total    Max.
                                            (h/W/S) (h/W/S) (h/W/S)    Credits  Marks
No.        Principles and
           Practice of Public                                              3        100
1 PHC501A  Health                           2   1  0
           Public Health
2 PHC502A  Systems and Health               3   1  0                   4        100
           Policy
3 PHC503A  Epidemiology                     2   1  0                   3        100

4 PHC504B Healthcare                        3   1  0                   4        100
                         Management and
                         Leadership         3   1  0                   4        100

5 PHC505A Biostatistics                     2   0  0                   2        50

6 PHO501A O/GEC-1                           15  5  0                   20       550

                         Total

Total number of contact hours per week          20 hours per week

                                SEMESTER-II

S.   Code  Course Title                     Theory Tutorial Practical Total Max.
                                            (h/W/S) (h/W/S) (h/W/S) Credits Marks
No.

1 PHC506A Public Health                     3   1  0                   4        100

           Priorities in India- I

2 PHC507A Public Health                     3   1  0                   4        100

           Priorities in India-II

3 PHC508A Research                          3   1  0                   4        100

           Methodology in

           Public Health

4 PHC509A Health Behaviour and 2                1  0                   3        100

           Health Promotion

5 PHC510A Ethics in public                  1   1  0                   2        50

           health

6 PHE5XXA MDEC-1                            2   1  0                   3        100

           Total                            14  6                      20       550

Total number of contact hours per week          20 hours per week

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences                                      RUAS     9
MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

                                SEMESTER-III

S.   Code      Course Title                 Theory Tutorial Practical  Total    Max.
                                            (h/W/S) (h/W/S) (h/W/S)    Credits  Marks
No.
                                                                           2       50
1 PHC601A Global Health                     1  1         0

2 PHC602A Technology in Public              2  1         0             3        100

               Health

3 PHC603A Programme Planning                2  1         0             3        100

               and Evaluation

4 PHC604A Demography and                    1  1         0             2                              50

               Population Sciences

5 PHP605A Project work                      0  0         10            5        150

6 PHE6XXA MDEC -2                           2  1         0             3        100

7 PHP606A Dissertation-Part 1               0  0         6             3        200

               Total                        8  5         16            21       750

Total number of contact hours per week

                                               29 hours per week

                                            SEMESTER-IV

S.   Code      Course Title                 Theory Tutorial Practical  Total    Max.
                                            (h/W/S) (h/W/S) (h/W/S)    Credits  Marks
No.
                                                                           3       100
1 PHE6XXA MDEC-3                            2  1         0

2 PHOXXA O/GEC-2                            3  0         0             3        100

3 PHP607A Dissertation-Part 2               0  0         14            7        300

4 PHI608A Internship                        0  0         12            6        150

               Total                        5  1         26            19       650

Total number of contact hours per week         32 hours per week

Maximum Marks                                  2500 (550+550+750+650)

Total Credits                                  80 (20+20+21+19)

Note: The vacations and other activities shall be as per the time-table for the corresponding batch.

20. Elective Courses

1. Major Discipline Elective Courses (MDEC)
We offer three major discipline elective courses (MDEC-1, MDEC-2 and MDEC-3) of equivalent credit (i.e.,
2 credits) as mandatory electives from the list given. At the beginning of the academic year, 3 mandatory
electives will be chosen by (the head of the institute) based on the public health competency requirements in

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences                                                            RUAS     10
 MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

the field (in discussion with NGOs, academia, Government. and research agencies) and also availability of
respective course leader.

                                                Major Discipline Elective Courses (MDEC)
                                                                     (MDEC)

                                               Qualitative Research methods (semester 2)
                                               Environment and Health (semester 2)
                                               Implementation Research Methods
                                               (semester 3)
                                               Health Economics (semester 3)
                                               Evidence synthesis (semester 4)
                                               Population Microbiology (semester 4)

2. Open/Generic Elective Courses (O/GEC)
We offer two Open/Generic Elective Courses (O/GEC -1 and O/GEC-2) of equivalent credit (i.e., 2 credits) in
semester 1 and 4, respectively. Open elective courses in the first semester are generic in nature, such as soft
skills and leadership, digital fluency, foreign languages, health and wellbeing (yoga and philosophy) in
alignment with NEP 2020 guidelines to promote holistic development of students. Open elective in the fourth
semester will be related to public health domain over and above what is taught in the regular mode. The student
can opt for UGC-Massive Online Open Courses SWAYAM portal/Coursera or from any Faculty of MSRUAS
offering open elective or from the below list.

                                            Open/Generic Elective Courses

                                 (O/GEC)
Infectious Disease Epidemiology (RUAS)

Cancer Epidemiology (RUAS)

Advanced Epidemiology in Health Sciences (RUAS)
Advanced Bio-statistics in Health Sciences (RUAS)

Health Insurance and Health Financing (RUAS)

Health Technology Assessment (RUAS)
Cluster Randomized Controlled Trials (RUAS)
Nutritional Epidemiology/Public health nutrition
(RUAS/RICPHI)
Social Marketing and Public Health (RUAS/KHPT/IHAT)
Quality Improvement and Management in Public Health
(RUAS)
Health Inequity and Social Determinants (RUAS/RICPHI)
Integrative Health Research Methods (RUAS)
Mixed Methods Research (RUAS)
One-Health Approach (RUAS)
Integrative Disease Surveillance (RUAS)
Concurrent Monitoring and Evaluation Of Health Programmes
(RUAS/KHPT/IHAT)

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences                                 RUAS                                  11
 MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

                                   Oral Health Promotion (RUAS)
                                   Public Health Nursing (RUAS)
                                   Community Optometry (RUAS)

MPH with Specialization (optional)

Specializations in MPH are aimed at providing an in-depth, specialized knowledge and skills in a specialized
area of public health. The students will be provided with a choice to select their area of interest based on the
available specialization, offered in collaboration with local partners such as RICPHI, KHPT, IPH etc. and
global partners such as UIC, UoM (IIDGHTP), etc. The student can opt for specialization on accumulation of
a minimum of 25 credits comprising of project work, electives, core course, dissertation and internship in a
particular public health domain.

We offer the following specializations:
              · Maternal, Neonatal and Child Health
              · Adolescent Health
              · Non-Communicable Diseases
              · Infectious Diseases
              · Public Health Nutrition
              · Integrative Health
              · Digital Health
              · Occupational Health

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences  RUAS                                                                  12
 MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS
Proposed Choice-based Credit System Structure for MPH programme

                 Proposed CBCS Structure for MPH Programme                       Total
                                                                                 Credits

                 PHC501A        PHC502A        PHC503A           PHC504B

                 Principles     Public Health  Epidemiology      Healthcare
                 and            Systems and    Credit-3          Management
                 Practices of   Health Policy                    and Leadership
Major            Public         Credit-4                         Credit-4
Discipline Core  Health
course (MDCC)    Credit-3       PHC507A        PHC509A           PHC510A

                 PHC506A

                 Public         Public Health Health             Ethics in Public 37

                 Health         Priorities in  Behaviour and Health Credit-2

                 Priorities in  India-II       Health

                 India-I        Credit-4       Promotion

                 Credit-4                      Credit-3

                 PHC601A        PHC602A        PHC603A           PHC604A
                 Global Health  Technology in                    Demography and
                 Credit-2       Public Health  Programme         Population
                                Credit-3       Planning and      Sciences
                                               Evaluation        Credit-2

                                               Credit-3

Major Discipline PHE5XXA        PHE6XXA        PHE6XXA                           9

Elective Courses MDEC-1         MDEC-2         EC-3
(MDEC-1,                        Credit-3       Credit-3
                 Credit-3
MDEC-2,

MDEC-3)

Open/ Generic PHO5XXB           PHO6XXB                                          5

Elective Courses O/GEC-1        O/GEC-2
(O/GEC-1,                       Credit-3
O/GEC-2)         Credit-2

Research         PHC505A        PHC508A                                          8

Courses (RC)     Biostatistics  Research

                 Credit-4       Methodology
                                in Public

                                Health

                                Credit-4

Project work/ PHP605A           PHI608A        PHP607A                           21

Dissertation/    Project work   Internship     Dissertation
Internship       Credit-5       Credit-6       Credit-10

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences                                                13
RUAS
MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

Sl.No.                                      Course Type  Credit

1 Major Discipline Core course                             37
                                                           09
2. Major Discipline Elective Courses                       05
3 Open/Generic Elective Courses                            08
4 Research Courses                                         21
5 Project work/Dissertation/Internship                     80

                    Total Credit

       Project
work/Dissertation/

     Internship
         26%

Research Courses                                                            Major Discipline
        10%                                                                    Core course
                                                                                    47%
 Open/Generic Elective
           Courses      Major Discipline Elective Courses
              6%                          11%

a. Programme Delivery Structure
    The programme is delivered on weekdays from Monday to Saturday as per the time-table.

b. Teaching and Learning Methods
    The course delivery comprises of a combination of few or all of the following methods:
               i. Face-to-face lectures using audio-visual aid.
              ii. Case-based learning
             iii. Workshops, group discussions, debates and presentations
             iv. Demonstration
              v. Guest lectures from industry and academia
             vi. Laboratory/field work

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences                                                    14
RUAS
MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

              vii. Industry visit/visit to public health/health organizations
              viii. Seminars/conferences

               ix. Group exercise
                x. Project exhibitions

c. PHP605B Project Work

            This course is intended to apply and synergize the learning outcomes of MPH
            programme through a project work. As part of the project work, students will be placed
            in different public health/health organizations such as sub-centers, primary health
            centers, community health care centers, district hospitals, first referral units and
            outreach centers in rural and urban areas. The project will enable the students to apply
            the theoretical and practical aspects of community-based or health-facility survey and
            project on relevant public health issue. This facilitates understanding and exploration
            of how the National Health Programmes are implemented at the population, health-
            facility and household levels.

d. PHI608B Internship

            As part of the internship course, students will be placed in different public
            health/health organizations such as NGOs and reputed health organizations. This
            course will provide opportunity for experiential learning with respect to social
            determinants, understanding various factors that interplay in deciding the health of the
            community and initiatives taken at the local, regional and international levels to
            address public health challenges.

e. PHP607B Dissertation
            A student selects a topic for dissertation based on the contemporary health issue and
            undertake the research. The dissertation requires primary data collection from health
            facilities/participants and preparation of a thesis at the Master's level and its defense.
            The students are also required to obtain Institutional Human Ethics Committee (IHEC)
            approval prior to primary data collection involving human subjects. In addition,
            students are encouraged to present a paper based on their research findings at a
            National/International conference and submit a manuscript for peer review publication
            in impact factor/UGC-CARE listed Journals. Please note that dissertation is
            considered completed only if both part-1 and part-2 are accomplished.

a. Assessment and Grading

     A course assessment will have two components:

          · Component-1: Continuous evaluation-60%

          · Component-2: Semester-End Examination (SEE)-40%

    For more details on the break-ups of weightage, please refer the respective course syllabus.

    A student is required to score a minimum of 40% (independently in components 1 and 2) for
    successful completion of a course and earning the credits.

    Note: Final marks awarded in each of the courses will be confirmed only after SAB/PAB as

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences                                                              15
RUAS
MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

      explained in Academic Regulations of MPH programme.

 b. Attendance
           A student is required to obtain a minimum of 75% attendance to be eligible to write the
           examination. Less than 75% attendance is considered FAIL; such a student is required to
           follow the same procedure as that of a failed student.

  c. Award of degree

              As per the Academic Regulations for MPH programme.

 d. Student Support for Learning

              Students are given the following support:
                   a. Reference books in the library
                   b. Pre-reads and handouts
                   c. Cases/case study
                   d. Magazines and journals
                   e. Internet facility
                   f. Computing facility
                   g. Laboratory facility
                   h. Workshop facility
                   i. Staff support
                   j. Lounges for discussions
                   k. Any other support that enhances their learning

 e. Quality Control Measures

              The following are the quality control measures:
             1. Review of question papers and assignment at the Department level
             2. Student feedback
             3. Opportunities for the students to see their assessed work
             4. Review by external examiners and external examiners reports
             5. Staff student consultative committee meetings
             6. Student exit feedback
             7. Subject assessment board
             8. Programme assessment board

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences                                                          16
RUAS
MPH ­ PROGRAMME SPECIFICATIONS

Programme Map (Course-PO-PSO Map)

  Course  Programme Outcomes (POs)                   Programme
  Code                                                 Specific
                                                      Outcomes
PHC501A                                                 (PSOs)
PHC502A
PHC503A   PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PO- PSO PSO PSOPSO
PHC504B    1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 -1 -2 -3 -4
PHC505A
PHC506A   333333111232 33 11

PHC507A   333323121222 33 11

PHC509A   333333211232 33 11
PHC510A
PHE5XXA   333313123333 31 31
PHC601A
PHC602A   333333221132 33 11
PHC603A
PHC604A   333132111212 33 31
PHP605A
PHE6XXA   333323111222 33 33
PHC607A
PHE6XXA   333332213132 33 33
 PHI608A
          33321223311232                                                                         1

          333333                            33333 33 23

          333323111222 33 31

          3332322111                        2 33 33

          333212211112 33 32

          333333211132 33 32

          333333333333 33 33

          333333332132 33 22

          333333211132 33 32

          3333311333                        3 33 13

                                            3313221  23

Co-curricular Activities
         Students are encouraged to participate in co-curricular activities like seminars,
         conferences, symposium, paper writing, attending industry exhibitions, project
         competitions and related activities to enhance their knowledge and network.

Cultural and Literary Activities
         Annual cultural festivals are held to unwind and ignite the creative endeavors, and
         students are encouraged to plan and participate in cultural and literary activities.

Sports and Athletics
         Students are encouraged to participate in out-door and in-door games on regular basis.

Faculty of Life and Allied Health Sciences                                                          17
RUAS
